# CelebA Super-Resolution Data Preparation

## 🧠 Project Description
This project prepares the **CelebA dataset** for training a **Super-Resolution model**.  
It downloads the dataset from **Kaggle**, extracts aligned face images, generates **low-resolution (LR)** and **high-resolution (HR)** pairs, and splits them into **training**, **validation**, and **test** sets.

This phase focuses on **data preparation and visualization**.  
In the **next phase**, we will use the **SRGAN (Super-Resolution Generative Adversarial Network)** model to train and generate higher-quality, realistic HR images from LR inputs.

---

## 👥 Team Information
- **Team Name:** PixelForge.  
- **Members:**
- 
  - Yosr Sellami LVYMK8
  - Liang Wenlong DGED6M
  - Lu Yijia DX29TC
  - Yarmammadova Aysel Q7K238

---
## Dataset Source
**Dataset:** [CelebA Dataset on Kaggle](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/jessicali9530/celeba-dataset)  

The **CelebA (CelebFaces Attributes Dataset)** contains more than **200,000 aligned celebrity face images** with annotations.  
Each image has a consistent face alignment and resolution of 178×218 pixels, making it ideal for face-related computer vision tasks like recognition, attribute prediction, and **super-resolution**.

---
##  Data Preparation Steps

### **1️ Downloading the Dataset**
- The dataset is automatically downloaded using the Kaggle API (`kaggle datasets download` command).
- A `kaggle.json` token must be uploaded in Colab to authenticate your Kaggle account.
- After downloading, the dataset is extracted into the `/content/celeba` directory.

### **2️ Data Exploration**
- A directory scan is performed using `os.walk` and `glob` to confirm where the `.jpg` images are located.
- Sample images are visualized using `matplotlib` to ensure successful extraction and readability.

### **3️ Data Transformation**
Each image is processed as follows:
- **HR images (High-Resolution)** are resized to **128×128**.
- **LR images (Low-Resolution)** are generated by downscaling HR images by a factor of 2 (to **64×64**).
- Both HR and LR images are converted into tensors using **PyTorch**.
  ### **4 Visualization**
To verify LR↔HR pair generation:
 _8 sample LR and HR images are visualized side-by-side.
    result:
     Total images in dataset: 202599
      LR batch: (16, 3, 64, 64) HR batch: (16, 3, 128, 128)
 ### **5 Splitting the Dataset**
The processed tensors are divided into:
_Training set
_Validation set
_Test set
Each split is saved as .pt tensor files for efficient loading during training.
 result:
   ✔ Saved train: 182341 items into 45 shard(s)
✔ Saved val: 10129 items into 5 shard(s)
✔ Saved test: 10129 items into 5 shard(s)
All done. Shards at: /content/celeba/final_tensors_sharded_fast
